I'm going to just be honest. There were
times where Joe Biden greatly
disappointed me and frankly, you know,
angered me. Like on the day of my debate
with Trump, the stakes were so high. And
the president calls and he said to me,
it just was so unnecessary.
>> And you took something from that
>> that his motivation was all about
himself.
>> Do you think he wanted you to win the
election?
Madame Vice President, there's nothing
you said I couldn't ask you.
>> Cuz I have a lot to say. And so IT
>> OKAY. SO, do you wish you hadn't ran?
>> No. But I do regret that we did not have
more time.
>> And then the debate that came before
with Biden and Trump, it was a car
crash.
>> I mean, this was clearly an individual
that was very much struggling.
>> He didn't want that debate. I could tell
something was a little off.
>> How do you know?
>> Well, I could start with this.
>> And what about not going on Joe Rogan's
show? I definitely regret that we didn't
do it, but there was a lot of games
being played.
>> And then on that night when the election
hasn't gone your way, what would I have
seen if I was a fly on the wall in the
room?
>> I was in a state of shock. Like I
haven't felt anything similar to the
emotion I felt that day other than the
grief I felt when my mother died and I
knew what was going to happen to our
country. So I had a hard time
reconciling that we can't still do
something about it because I grew up in
an environment where everyone was
fighting for justice and for equality.
So, I do think about how different it
could have been, but sometimes the fight
takes a while.
>> Does that mean that you're going to run
again?
>> I
I see messages all the time in the
comments section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you.
>> Madame Vice President,
how are you doing?
>> I am well. I am well. I mean all things
considered I am well my family is good
health so I start there but otherwise
you know it's a it's a it's a troubling
time
>> what are the what are the full range of
emotions when you said all things
considered what are the full what's the
full picture there
>> everything from
grateful and feeling very blessed
to extremely ly
troubled, disappointed,
concerned
of the state of our country and by
extension the world. Like a lot of
people who are watching the news and
reading the news, there's a state of
anxiety what will happen next. I often
have found myself saying to people, it
may get worse before it gets better. And
so the knowledge of that perhaps the
anticipation of that I think keeps me
and many others on edge.
>> Do you believe that? Do you believe it's
it could get worse before it gets
better?
>> I think it's very possible. Every day I
I because actually during the book tour
I've I've said it to audiences and in
one city and then the next day something
happens.
There's a lot that's very unpredictable
about this administration. Although
there is almost all of it that I did
predict.
Now, I know you you only had 107 days
>> to potentially intervene in the course
of history, but when you see these
things playing out that you're referring
to that incite those feelings you have
of frustration,
>> um a little bit of anxiety, etc.,
>> do do you feel a sense of like
responsibility in a weird way because
because
>> yeah,
>> there was a percentage chance of sort of
intervening in these things. This is a
complex question to ask, but it's
>> Mhm. I do think about how different it
could have been.
>> Mhm.
>> I do think about it in the context of
the number of people who are being
impacted in such a horrible way. I think
of it in terms of the number of people
who are existing and living in utter
fear right now, afraid of being attacked
or afraid of being targeted with hate.
um much less misinformation. I Yeah, I
do. And I and I know that the the race
that I ran for president of the United
States, the outcome of that election is
what has happened
and it would have been different. It
would have been very different. I try
not to allow myself to think too much
this way. I will tell you that because I
for better and worse really
do like to be centered on the present.
So, so let's go. I want to understand
the the set of circumstances that
created someone like you because you're
an anomaly. There's a lot of firsts that
appear in your career, but if we if we
start at the beginning, what is the
context that shapes someone to become
such an anomaly in their professional
career?
>> My parents and the community that raised
me. My mother arrived from India in the
United States at the age of 19 by
herself.
My mother naturally at that young age
became aligned with the civil rights
movement
>> in in um Berkeley and Oakland,
California. Met my father who had been a
national scholar in Jamaica.
They fell in love and here I am. My
sister and I were born and we were born
in an environment where everyone was
fighting for justice and for freedom and
for equality. every message we got was
you are important and you have a duty to
figure out how you're going to
participate. I I noticed this as I was
reading through your story, how service
and helping others seems to be so
interwoven into your DNA.
>> And even we spoke to Doug
>> Uhhuh.
>> your husband and he was telling me a
story about your first date with him.
>> Uhhuh. What did he tell you? Well,
apparently you made a you made a remark
on that first date that you're you're
here to help people and to serve people.
He told me many things. We we have a I
have many pages of what Duck said. Very
fascinating. He's um he's very in love
with you, by the way.
>> I'm very in love with my husband and
he's very funny. I hope you got a sense
of
>> He was hilarious guy.
>> Yeah. Well, he he and I had such
different careers, both of us being
lawyers, right? He went immediately into
private practice. I never wanted to be
in private practice. It was never about
money for me. was always about people
and how
could I do the work that was about
protecting people and giving people
dignity.
>> Why protecting people?
>> I I think there's a lot um that has to
do also maybe with birth order.
>> I'm the eldest.
>> And from the age of 2 years old, my
mother told me, "Take care of your
sister. Look out for your sister."
You've got all kinds of pictures. Canon,
I've been through everything.
>> Yeah. This is my sister Maya.
>> That's you protecting her.
>> And that's me protecting her. I grew up
also, you know, seeing my mother who was
a 5-ft tall brown woman with an accent
would be treated. She taught me this, my
extended family taught me. But then I
also witnessed
the importance of
making sure that all people that their
dignity is respected and protected. and
I because I you know I I have lived a
life to see where that doesn't always
happen.
>> So you decide to focus on law in public
practice. Um you have a phenomenal
career from that point onwards. It's
really remarkable what you're able to
accomplish and this is I guess where a
lot of the firsts come in because from
the age of 24 to 51 you rise from deputy
district attorney to California's
attorney general becoming the first
woman and first black person to hold
both roles. Um, and you led major
reforms in that time, including securing
$25 billion in homeowner relief after
the 2008 crisis, launching the back on
track LA rehabilitation program, and
making California the state the first
state to mandate body cameras for
justice justice agents and much more.
An incredible career up until that
point. That could have been it. You
could have bowed out at that point and
celebrated.
>> There's so much more to be done. There's
so much more to be done. Um, I think one
of my strengths and weaknesses is um, I
like to solve problems, but that means
that I tend to
once a problem has been addressed, move
on to the next one without maybe taking
the time to pat myself on the back
>> because now it's time to move on to the
next issue.
>> During your career, you you saw some
horrific things. That's the nature of
your job. You deal with the dark darkest
parts of reality.
>> Parts of human behavior and nature I've
seen. Yeah, you're right.
>> Give me give me some context there. What
does that mean in reality?
>> Well, for a while I specialized in child
sexual assault, which is about um
the most horrendous of
abuse and crime, which is an adult
abusing a child.
And
those cases were so difficult um for so
many reasons. I mean, there's a couple
that I remember in particular where I
just
where the children were so young that
they were um they wouldn't be able to
testify.
One was an elementary school little
girl. And I mean, I I remember going
into the bathroom of the courthouse and
crying
because I knew a jury
would not
have enough to convict
and um
you know, broke my heart. I mean, and I
I have thought about that little girl,
you know, not years and years and years
later. But those cases, you know, it's
the worst of human behavior, which is we
as a society should be in the business
of protecting children and protecting
their vulnerability so that they can
thrive. Um, but I've, you know, I've
prosecuted homicide cases. I've, um, you
know, I've prosecuted fraud cases. How
does how does one deal with all of this
stress and responsibility? And I'm not
just referring to your time as attorney
general, but even thereafter with
>> running for president and the ups and
downs of that, the public feedback, the
the pressure, the responsibility of
potentially running the, you know, the
the free world basically and becoming
the most powerful person on earth and
the ups, the downs, the attacks, the
>> the the child abuses. How does one
learn? Is there a framework you've
built? Is there are there ideas or
principles that you've developed to deal
with such pressure?
>> Well, this may sound trit, but I work
out every day.
>> Yeah.
>> I work out every morning, no matter how
little sleep I've had. Um, I just find
it to be just mind, body, and soul.
>> Have you changed over time?
>> Oh, for sure I've changed over time. The
pressure has changed in magnitude.
>> Um but the pressure that I feel in terms
of my sense of personal responsibility
>> has not changed. I I put a lot of
I I I hold myself to a very high
standard and um I tend to be a
perfectionist even though I am far from
perfect you know I mean even during the
107 days every night I would stay awake
thinking what more could I have done
with that one day
>> 24year-old Kamala Harris who starts as
that sort of uh becomes eventually
becomes the deputy district attorney. If
I sat her there
>> Uhhuh.
>> and you're sat there now as um madame
vice president, what would be the
notable differences in personality,
mentality,
in perspective?
>> Oh, that's interesting.
Well, I mean, I I don't know if that's
changed, but she was fearless.
>> She was fearless.
>> She was fearless. She didn't hear no, it
can't be done.
and whether it was the first case that I
had and I was a young prosecutor and I
was going through the files and it was a
Friday evening and I realized that the
person who had been arrested had young
children at home, a woman and all the
courts were shutting down and I went to
the courtroom and I asked the judge,
"Please take the bench again. She has
young children. She can't stay in over
the weekend.
And the clerk was like, "Nope, he's gone
for the day. He's leaving for the day."
And I would not leave. And they call the
case, you know, but not hearing no. I
just I um that has been probably a
throughine of my my life. I don't rest
easy with the idea that something is not
possible.
um at least I don't rest easy with it
without trying
>> to show that it is possible and that's
probably not changed. I also have
started to sit better with the idea that
but you can't change everyone.
>> Mhm.
>> How does that change your approach
knowing that you can't change everybody?
I'm better able to assess
a situation
to figure out what is the potential
there.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> And be perhaps a bit more realistic
without being I think jaded about it.
>> Yeah.
>> And I guess that's wisdom and
experiences.
>> Yeah. It comes with it comes with I
think a bit of experience
>> which allows you to be more efficient
and effective.
>> And that's right. Yeah.
>> That's exactly right. That's exactly
right because that is how I reconcile it
which is
>> the effort is better placed
>> somewhere else.
>> Yeah.
>> And at what point in this in this
journey did you realize that you wanted
to be president of the United States?
Like was was there a a lunch or a dinner
you had with Doug? When does that
decision get made in your career?
>> It was when I was in the Senate.
>> Yeah. I ran into a friend who came up,
Doug and I were at a basically a a
family table in a local restaurant
eating and he said to me, "You should
run for president." And it had not
occurred to me until then. It had not
occurred to me to run for president. I
There are people who are born thinking
they're going to be president. There are
people who look who look in the mirror
every day and see a president. I was not
one of those people. But then the
thought
it kind of germinated and then of course
being vice president and doing the work
of vice president of the United States I
met with over 150 world leaders,
presidents, prime ministers, chancellors
and kings. I've negotiated very
important
deals and and and issues on behalf of
the American people. Um I've spent
countless hours not only in the Oval
Office but the situation room and
traveling around the world. And so in
those 107 days, I was fully aware of not
only the importance of the job, but
fully aware that I had the experience
and knowledge to be able to do it
effectively.
>> I mean, this is one of the things I was
actually talking to a friend of mine
downstairs, Lucy Mangini, who sat out
there, and we were talking about this
idea of like, does imposter syndrome
ever leave you? And I imposter syndrome
is a bit of a loaded term,
>> but you kind of assume that people in
higher places than you are have some
like genetic or mental or some gift.
They have all the answers. But higher
you climb with your own continued
naivity, you start to suspect that no
one really
>> is genetically gifted or like has some
superpower that you don't have.
>> Right. And I'm wondering if you've
experienced that in your career where
the higher you've climbed, you've
realized that actually everybody up here
is like I'm like that like or I'm at
least on their level. Have you had that
experience in your career?
>> Yes, I have. And but I've also had the
imposttor syndrome experience and that
was when I was first elected DA
>> and I challenged then in the incumbent.
Um I started out at six points in the
polls which is six out of 100.
>> Uh you know people recently asked me how
about polls polls. Well, you know, if I
listened to polls, I would have never
run for my first office and therefore we
wouldn't be having this interview
probably. And I won. And it was, you
know, it was not expected that I would,
at least when I jumped in the race. And
there I was sitting in the office and I
thought, "Oh my god, I'm I'm now the
elected DA of a major city in the United
States." In hindsight, it was maybe it's
we call it imposttor syndrome. to your
point maybe it is a very loaded term
because I think there is nothing wrong
with having um and I think that there's
a lot that is good with having a certain
level of humility
>> and in particular when the people have
vested you with great power
>> right to understand it's not about you
right I think that that is that is part
and parcel of what we call imposttor
syndrome or who has it I think often it
is because they understand how serious
The job is on behalf of others.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And I applaud a bit of humility, honest
humility, not feain humility.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. Cuz there are plenty of people
that are, you know, self-deprecating for
the sake of the shtick of it all.
>> Yeah.
>> But yes, to your point, the higher you
go,
>> it does. It does because the more you're
exposed to to being the more you're in
the rooms with the people who are who
otherwise feel untouchable,
>> the more you understand that they are
not untouchable.
>> It's a polite way of putting it,
>> the more you understand everyone's got a
little dust on them.
>> Yeah.
>> And they're not not everyone's shiny.
>> But it's liberating to know that that
that's the case because you know there's
we all put a ceiling above us. and we
think that's my level and everyone above
that has some gift that I will never be
able to attain. So I won't even strive
to break that ceiling because you know I
don't deserve to be up there.
>> But but and also don't discount the
signals that that many people are sent
that you don't belong there.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and you know, I I especially
when I'm mentoring people will often say
to them, don't ever limit yourself
based on other people's limited ability
to see who you are.
>> Mhm.
>> That's their limitations to see who you
are in your capacity. Don't impose those
limitations on yourself.
>> Well, I mean, this that photo I showed
you before we started recording that
LeBron posted is a pretty iconic
example. I'll put it on the screen, but
it just goes to show I think all the
vice presidents that came before you,
and frankly, they all look the same.
>> So,
one might fall into the trap of thinking
that if I don't look like this, then I
can't do this job. You know, that's what
I think the human mind logically might
arrive at that conclusion. It looks for
pattern recognition. It might think if
I'm not one of these here, one of these
men here with this suit on and this kind
of hair and this age, then that's not a
position I can thrive in.
>> I'll
see you and add one.
>> Okay.
>> And everyone else thinks that this is
the image of who can do the job.
>> Yeah.
So the added challenge is not only the
limitations one puts on themselves
but the limitations one might be met
with around other people's perceptions
about who can do what.
>> And have you had that through your
career?
>> Yes. Is there any particular examples
that always sit at the front of your
mind where you really really felt that
the room you were in, people were
discounting you purely based on
appearance or gender or race or anything
like that?
>> I mean, there are times in my career
when I walked in the room and someone
said, you know, something along if they
didn't know me.
>> Mhm.
>> If they didn't know what they were
walking into, you know, they were
waiting for my boss.
And how did you deal with that? How do
you stop that suppressing you? Because
it's very easy to feel that and go and
to shrink.
>> You will often be, you may often be the
only one who walks into a boardroom, a
courtroom, a meeting room,
who looks like yourself or has had your
life experiences.
But when you walk in that room, walk in
that room, chin up, shoulders back,
knowing there are so many people who are
not in that room,
>> who are so proud of you walking in that
room and expect that you will use the
voice that you carry.
>> Mhm. you know, and and there are there
are tools that one has to employ when
you otherwise are aware that you might
be presenting the unfamiliar.
>> But but but what I also would caution is
is don't walk in that room with the
assumption that your value will not be
recognized. Right? And so again, this
gets back to my point about we all have
to moderate what limitations are we
putting on ourselves
with what limitations are being sent our
way.
>> And when you say tools,
>> well, just like that, don't don't when
you walk into that room, see all the
people. I think sometimes of Mrs.
Francis Wilson, who was my first grade
teacher who attended my law school
graduation.
I think of my mother who would say to me
calmly don't you ever let anyone tell
you who you are you tell them who you
are right and you think of these people
when you walk into these important rooms
to remind you
>> I I it's a tool I have used over a
period of time and um and it has served
me well yes there's Mrs. Wilson. That's
at my law school graduation. And that's
my mother. That's exactly right. How
about that? Yeah. Where'd you get all
these pictures?
>> Well, stopping you, you know.
>> Yeah. That's Mrs. Wilson.
>> And so, why is thinking of Mrs. Wilson
helping you when you walk into those
rooms?
Because
there is, I think, a key to success
that each of us who has achieved success
probably shares, which is there has been
someone at least, and it could be a
parent, it could be a teacher, it could
be a neighbor, it could be a pastor,
someone who convinced you you were
special.
You may not have been particularly
special, but they told you you were and
you believed them.
I know that's true for me. I may not
have been particularly special, but I
had a few people who told me I was and I
believed them.
>> Mhm.
>> And and but with that came
therefore don't do this thing.
>> Mhm.
>> Cuz you're you know you shouldn't be
doing that thing but go in that room. I
think uh you know when we talk about
mentorship, when we think about the
signals that we as a society send to
children and I mean all of our children,
our own children, the children of a
community which we should think of as
our children.
to send them signals that tell them they
are special and then back that up with
giving them the resources
would make us a much stronger society.
as you said that I was reflecting on
little passing comments people in my
life made at certain points that at the
time I was suspicious about like you
know them telling you that you're going
to be special or do something great one
day that I might have not fully believed
myself but I believe they believed it
>> right
>> and that was enough
>> but that's that's what I'm saying they
told me and I believed them I didn't
think of it and maybe that's why I don't
look in the mirror and see all these
things
but yes
>> have you got any tools around how you've
leared to hold yourself.
>> Thinking back to 24y old comma versus
this Kamla, is there a certain way you
hold yourself in those rooms that also
garners that respect? I noticed when you
speak, you you don't rush and I think
people that are younger in their career,
they tend to
>> Yeah. Right.
>> Because they're they're kind of almost
trying to excuse the amount of time
they're taking and they kind of are a
bit more
>> I just wondering if there's anything
you've any tools in that regard that
have helped.
It's important to have some sense of
conceptually
>> what you mean to say and you not that
you have to rehearse what you're going
to speak before you speak it but do have
a sense of what you intend to
communicate.
>> Mhm. And I think it's also important to
especially with complex issues in the
context of a discussion
deconstruct
in your mind what the issue is
>> so you can speak logically.
>> Mhm.
>> And what about appearance generally? Do
you think much about that? So do you
think much about because you're I mean
you look very your outfit's stunning
today.
>> You're very
>> Does it matter?
>> Sadly it does.
>> It does. I mean depending on context. Um
sadly it does. I I we are still I think
in a world where the way you appear when
you walk in the room
impacts first impressions.
>> Mhm.
um including just for example again even
in mentoring people people will look at
their watch or their phone to see if
you've walked in the room on time
>> and will judge something about your
character
>> that the piece of how you look that is
going to suggest the pride that one has
in themselves
>> as a matter of self-respect I mean I've
always this is you know I grew up in the
black church,
you dress up
>> and it's a it's a reflection of your
dignity
and the respect you have for the place
that you may be.
>> And in January 2019, you launched your
presidential campaign for the first
time, which was up until you you dropped
out later that year in December.
>> Correct.
>> Why did you drop out of that uh
presidential race? What's the what's the
full context behind the scenes? There
was a lot there. Um,
mostly we ran out of money.
>> Yeah.
>> But I learned a lot of lessons obviously
about running. Um, but that was that was
the main reason.
>> And at some point you get a call from
Mr. President.
>> Mhm. I got a call from then nominee,
Democratic nominee Joe Biden. He um we
facetimed it was during the height of
COVID.
>> Yeah.
>> And he asked me to be his running mate.
and it was a a great honor and I was
honored to do it.
>> Did you have any inclination before that
moment that he was going to ask you?
>> Had there been like a side conversation?
>> So, no. I had an interview. I had an
interview and it was like something out
of a spy movie where I had my assistant
drove me to one location. This was in
DC. And then it was a mall. And then I
got out of that car to get in another
car that was because the press were
watching everything to see who there was
a short list that was out who was going
to be. So we had to do this whole
clandestine thing. And then I got into
another car being driven by one of his
assistants and then we went to this, you
know, this very circuitous route to a
house and then through the back door.
The windows were closed, the shades were
closed and I had my interview. went back
to because Doug and I were in our
apartment in DC because I was senator at
the time and again height of COVID then
the vans the press vans were parked out
front and we would just want to go for a
walk. Remember during co everyone just
wanted to get some fresh air they must
have thought we couldn't see them. They
were like in unmarked vans. So from time
to time I just walked up to him and say
we're going to get some coffee. Can I
bring you anything back? We'll be right
back. I the day I actually got the call
from from Joe Biden asking me to run
with him was the same day earlier where
one of my girlfriends has a house in
Virginia and it was the end of summer
and she had all these beautiful end of
summer tomatoes.
>> I like to cook. She brought me this big
box of tomatoes and I was going to make
a bunch of marinara
>> and freeze it. Then I get the call from
him. I said yes, of course. And I don't
know, it felt like within seconds
a parade of people walk into our
apartment with a parade of binders sit
down. Everyone's in masks to tell us,
"Okay, this is what the campaign is
going to be." And because I hate to
waste food, every one of them walked out
with me handing them to as they left.
>> I'm so intrigued to know. I've done many
interviews in my life. I've been in a
couple of interviews myself. How does
someone get interviewed to be the vice
president? like what are the questions
one is asked?
>> Well, having been in the position of
both being the interviewer and the
interviewee,
>> yeah,
>> um it really as much as anything comes
down to chemistry.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Because by the time that that interview
is happening, it's usually narrowed down
to about three people.
So, all the vetting has been done. I
mean, my the vetting I had such a
truncated experience when I was running
for president of of just a couple of
weeks, but I think Joe Biden took like
nine weeks to make a decision. And so
there's vetting when I was being vetted
for vice president. I had a I don't know
9-hour interview with a lawyer going
through everything, everything. My
taxes, my professional record,
everything that was everything,
everything. I mean, talk about a
colonoscopy.
>> It was just virtually. That's kind of
what it was. And so when all of that has
been done and it's kind of green light,
green light through that, then it's
about sitting down and just deciding um
because it it is going to be a
partnership, right? And it has to be it
has to be where you feel that you can
trust someone. You you could work with
them. You are you're doing it for the
same reasons.
>> Was it what you thought it was going to
be
>> being vice president?
>> Yeah.
>> I didn't know exactly what it would be
because there's nothing that can compare
to it. I mean, I was the 49th vice
president of the United States. There
have only been 48 before me. Right.
>> Mhm. And I don't think anything can
truly prepare you for what it is because
it is um a very unique position where
you are
again you are number two in command.
>> Wow. you. So the the seriousness of the
responsibility is is that um I I give
all credit to now the late President
Jimmy Carter who decided when he was
president having come off of you Kennedy
and Nixon and everything. He decided
that the vice president should be given
greater responsibilities than had been
the case because God forbid something
happens to the president. There should
be a smooth succession. And so Walter
Montdale was his vice president and was
the first to have an office in the West
Wing.
>> Mhm.
>> The responsibilities were again to meet
with world leaders. The responsibilities
were to travel the country um on behalf
of our administration and our policies.
Um it's it's an incredible
responsibility and um you know meeting
with the variety of people who for the
most part just want us to achieve good
things. When I was reading your book 107
days, one of the one of the really
surprising things was but also makes
sense when I understand human nature was
that you talk about how some of the
president's staff were basically
suppressing you a little bit,
suppressing your accomplishments because
you're a threat to them and you I think
you were told pretty early on or you had
heard pretty early on from a chief of
staff that
>> the the vice president is kind of seen
as a threat to the president. So, the
lore has it that
the outgoing chief of staff to the
president will tell the incoming chief
of staff to the incoming president
regardless of political party. Rule
number one, watch the vice president.
Lore has it that that's the case. And um
and then I had of course run against Joe
Biden. I was very and acutely aware that
I would have to
over and over again prove my loyalty
that it wouldn't be assumed.
>> You say in the book the president staff
was adding fuel to negative narratives
that sprung up about me.
>> Yeah.
>> The president's inner circle seemed fine
with it. Indeed, it seemed as if they
decided I should be knocked down a
little bit more.
>> Yeah. I was shocked when I read that but
at the same time understood it
>> because it's human nature but also
shocked
because one wouldn't expect
>> it was and it was counterproductive
was absolutely counterproductive. Was
there a particular moment where you
realized that this was happening
for the first time?
>> To be candid with you, I
had a sense of it for quite some time,
but it was after the election that I
really started to hear the stories about
it. I mean, I I had a sense of it. It
was clear to me in terms of just the
challenges with getting them to uplift,
getting them to defend, especially when
there were inaccurate, unfair attacks.
And then I started to hear more stories
after.
>> And what you mean by that is when there
were unfair media attacks on you that
could quite easily have been rebuttled
or
>> debunked, there was no desire to debunk
them.
>> There was there the staff and the
resources under the president as
compared to the vice president are
enormous. Mhm.
>> And to the extent that the vice
president is being attacked, resources
were available but not used to
defend the vice president in the way
that they could have that would have
inured to the benefit of everyone
involved.
>> Cuz that's what I think. There was an
argument to say it was in their
interests because if the if if you and
Joe Biden are strong, you're more like
Joe Biden's more likely to then win the
next election. Exactly. That's my point.
We rose and fell together.
>> Yeah.
And did did he did Joe Biden know that
that was happening?
>> I don't know if he did,
>> but it's the staff underneath him that
are in charge of that.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, they would they So, you're
saying that that you think they they
wanted you to be weaker in public
perception because that kind of keeps
you in your place?
>> I
think that that was part of it. I do. I
think that they decided that, you know,
there are far too many people in this
world and in professional life
who approach things with a zero- sum
game.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> If I have more, you have less.
And it is incredibly shortsighted. And I
think it's actually quite provincial
thinking when you're talking about the
stakes that were at play
>> in our administration and of course in
the election
>> and they you were talking about in the
book as well in on page 47 of 107 days
that they also didn't
promote your accomplishments because
when I read through all the research of
the things that you had accomplished I
wasn't aware
>> I know
>> there doesn't seem to be a megaphone
shouting about the things you
accomplished. So, um it
>> was very frustrating. I can't even tell
you. Frustrating and painful
>> really.
>> And well, and also not just for me, but
for the people who knew my career and
knew what was not being said and what
was being said.
>> What wasn't being said,
>> the accomplishments, the um the the the
credibility of um of my leadership.
They thought that, and you say this on
page 51, if you were shining, then Joe
Biden was dimmed. So, it was very much
in their interests to
make sure you were dimmed.
One one could argue then so that Joe
Biden was shining.
>> Yeah. And that was um
again, it was very shortsighted.
>> Are you friends with Joe Biden?
>> Yes.
>> Is the relationship good?
>> It's a good relationship. I just talked
to him.
two days ago he called me for my
birthday.
>> Is it Is it complicated?
>> Yes, it's very complicated.
>> It is. And as I write in the book, I um
it is very complicated. I have a great
deal of affection for him. Um, and
there were times that I've been quite
candid about where he
greatly disappointed me
and frankly, you know, angered me.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you give me context on it where he
disappointed and angered you?
>> So, I write um and I, you know, I I I
thought about this. Was I going to write
about it or not? And I I decided in
writing this book, I was going to just
be honest and these are the facts and
the reader can take what they want from
it. on the day of the debate, my debate
with Trump.
And you know, so going into a
presidential debate is an incredibly
intense and intensive project, including
what has historically happened that we
even called debate camp.
>> Can you imagine? And it's no camp at
all. It's going into
um where you basically are sequestered
for a period of time immediately before
the debate.
Where did you get all of these? This is
Phipe who played Donald Trump
>> in your debate camp.
>> In my debate camp and he never broke
character ever.
>> So this is a fake Trump that was brought
in.
>> This is the fake Trump. He would do the
makeup, the orange makeup, the long red
tie. He was just awful.
Awful. awful in the best way in trying
to get me prepared and um and there were
a lot of people like Phipe there were a
lot of people who are you know I I'm
very fortunate I have people who have
been with me for years and years and
years through these various offices and
you know even if they go on to different
positions they always come back when
needed and so debate camp was this
intense basically a preparation process
where you
you know your team will basically try to
they'll break you and then build you
back up. So the day of the debate was
after that intense period of preparation
and then that morning I had a meeting
with my team. I thought it was going to
be more prep but they actually were
wonderful and just basically said to me
you're ready.
So, okay then being a woman running for
president and many women in various high
level positions get their hair and
makeup done. Back to your point about
presentation and it can take hours.
>> Hair and makeup got done. I'm in the
hotel room with Doug, with my husband,
and the president calls and I they I was
told that he wanted to call me so that
I'd be ready. And I was so sure it was
to buck me up and go go get him.
And he did say that for the first beat.
And then he went on to talk about a
group of people in Pennsylvania who were
saying bad things about me.
because they heard I was saying bad
things about him. And when I hung up the
phone, I was just
I was it was unbelievable. And I was
Yes, I was angry and deeply
disappointed.
It just it was so unnecessary. There
only two people in the world other than
me that has debated this guy, Hillary
Clinton and him. And you know what it's
like? It's going into a debate with the
stakes being that high and and Trump
hadn't agreed to another debate.
The stakes were so high.
So that's an example of what I mean.
>> You took something from that. You took a
an underlying message about one's
intentions from that. cuz I would if
someone called me in the leadup to de
debate prep and said something like that
to me, I would assume that they don't
want the best for me.
>> My takeaway is his motivation was all
about himself.
>> That's what I would assume from that. I
would assume that.
>> Yeah. Right. Obviously, right?
>> Yeah.
>> It wasn't about my performance at the
debate.
>> Do you think he wanted you to win the
election?
I do because
I was the only one who would be able to
preserve his legacy.
>> But even that's about him.
>> Well, if I had to assume one of the
reasons why he'd want me to win
if Yeah.
And of course, you know that this all
wouldn't be happening. I don't think
anybody
who cares about the future of the
country um the democracy or even just
protecting the Constitution of the
United States would have wanted this.
Yeah.
just a bit of a reminder to me that a
lot of people in the highest places in
in power are maybe a little bit
self-focused.
>> Yeah, that's that is the case.
>> I think it um I think that is the case.
I've seen it.
>> I've seen it.
>> Maybe dare I say that it that's how they
get there.
I think that may be a big part of it if
they don't have something else that is
the pull or the push.
>> Yeah. Cuz I look at your life and your
career and I see a dedication to the
same thing which is like serving people
and it's at the expense of financial
opportunities and other opportunities
you could have pursued and it seems to
be really really authentic to me that
your your agenda was to serve people. Um
I can't say that about everybody else
that I've studied or interviewed in the
political environment. And the other
thing the other thing that so I watch
all these debates. I've been I'm such a
big fan of American politics. So I was I
was up at 12 years old watching Obama
get inaugurated or whatever it was. I
can't it was roughly I was a young kid
at the time.
>> I I stay up and watch all the debates. I
always have since I was a kid. I watched
that debate. But the debate that came
before with Biden and Trump.
>> It was so apparently clear.
>> Yeah.
>> That this was not okay.
>> And it felt like it felt like the whole
of the Democratic side of politics was
pretending everything was okay. Mhm.
>> That's kind of my observation from the
UK. I was like, why are they all
pretending everything's fine? But this
was clearly an individual that was very
much struggling with articulation, with
ideas,
>> and in the face of someone like Trump
who
>> to his credit
is able to pounce on that to be very
clear. and and he and he interestingly
enough because of course I watched that
debate very closely for many many
reasons including um I had four
interviews
right after his debate
>> okay
>> to speak on behalf of the president
during the debate and what was
interesting in that debate was also to
watch how it's a very rare circumstance
that you see Donald Trump actually
moderate
it was fascinating
You must have known. You must have you
sat you sat there. You were in LA at the
time, right?
>> I was in LA at the Fairmont Hotel
>> watching
>> and
>> taking vigorous notes. I had ordered,
you know, like they had a little crude
tape plate and I was like, "No, this is
a pizza night. Ordered pizza for
everyone." I had my a number of people
with me, but I had a tight group of
people with me in the room.
He called me from debate camp.
>> Mhm.
>> The president did, Biden did. And I
could tell something was a little off.
And
I was concerned about I I just he I
don't think he wanted to debate is my
point. He didn't want that debate. And
you know, it's like any competition you
go in, whether it's you're bidding for
something, you're if it's sports, you
got to want it.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. If you don't want to be in the
competition,
>> it will absolutely have an impact on
your performance. And I don't think he
I'm pretty sure he did not want to
debate.
>> How do you know? What were the signs?
>> Well, we had conversations about it. I
think he got talked into it. And in any
event, so I'm watching the debate with
my tight team. I wanted it to be a small
team so I could just be candid as it's
happening because I know I have four
interviews right after. And you know, in
every debate, I don't care who you are,
there will be statistic wrong or you
know, you name this country, but it was
that country. That always happens. There
is no such thing as a perfect debate. So
there will be something to clean up.
>> Yeah.
>> And I expected that.
And then, you know, we saw what we all
saw.
>> It was a car crash. It was a historic
car crash. I actually can't think of a
>> I'm a little bit of a historian of these
debates because I I think they're
fascinating sort of experiments and
demonstrations of human psychology and
how these zingers emerge and the binders
full of women thing and you know the
Obama's whole thing about the um
>> the Romney and Obama in that debate
where they talked about the the the
military was no longer horses and
bayonets. I just think it's so
interesting because it's funny how a a
sentence or a phrase can sway the
general public in such a profound way
>> and stick
>> and stick and then as a marketer I spent
10 years in marketing I think about this
a lot how like that that horses and
bayonets the fact that I can remember
that but I can't really remember
anything else
>> right that's interesting
>> you know the power of the words so that
in my view
>> and the delivery right so the words
combined with the delivery and the
timing
>> yeah and this is what you learn
>> that has to that all has to coincide
>> so what was real strategy going into
that debate with Trump because you had
those same moments where the cats and
the dogs and all those all that
unbelievable stuff and and also you it
at home I was thinking oh she's she's
trying to trigger him and it's working.
>> Yeah, because he's so predictable that
way.
>> What were those things for you? Well,
the first thing is that we had empty
pads on our um podium and in in the
debate camp and then therefore when I
walked on stage after I shook his hand
went back to my podium, I wrote a smiley
face
and cuz I just decided I was going to
have fun
because one of the things about these
kinds of debates in particular is the
person who's having fun wins.
That's so true. We watched it back the
other day and you're smiling
>> and you you look like you're enjoying it
and he looks frustrated.
>> Yeah.
>> So, that was intentional was to if you
look like you're having fun,
>> well, have fun, but though not just look
cuz I think it's very difficult to look
like you're having fun if you're not,
right?
>> Um,
>> so you've got to find you've you have to
find you have to this is a true for
life. You got to see the humor in it.
Otherwise, it's just going to undo you.
Especially if you're dealing with heavy
stuff, you've got to see the humor in
it. And you know, like when he pulled
out the cats and dogs thing,
I couldn't even believe it. I couldn't
because here's what happened. So
I didn't know that he that this was
being said, right?
>> Let's give context for anyone that
doesn't know.
>> Okay. Yes. Right. you well
>> well so from what I understand it's
faint in my memory but um there was this
like crazy rumor that I think it was im
illegal immigrants were eating cats and
dogs
>> that Haitian immigrants regardless of
their legal status
>> in Ohio were eating their pets
>> cats and dogs
>> so I hadn't even heard about it cuz I'm
in debate camp right
and then two members of my team see him
get off
his his Trump plane with the main
purveyor of this nonsense
and then they realize if she's on the
plane with him it is very possible last
thing he heard was this thing. So they
last minute tell me by the way um a lot
of them call me boss because it's like
this is what you do in law enforcement
and it just stuck crazy. Hey boss, we
got to tell you something. We didn't
mention it to you. There's this whole
thing that they're saying on that side
about Haitian immigrants eating cats and
dogs. And I was like, are you kidding
me? That's ridiculous. No, but it's what
they're saying. So just it may come up
in the debate. Sure enough, it did. But
see, here's the thing that I would say
to you, Stephen, that
again, one of the reasons I wrote the
book is also there are lessons to be
learned from those 107 days to be
applied today.
I believe that part of what is the
method is say the outrageous thing,
then everyone is going to focus on that
outrageous thing.
And meanwhile this is happening,
right? And so meanwhile
>> misdirection.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> And misdirection includes, by the way,
talking about immigrants eating cats and
dogs and not talking about what's your
plan for working Americans to bring down
the prices.
So then the press covers that whole
thing and not oh where was his plan for
bringing down prices.
>> Here's what I've come to learn um in the
last sort of 10 years working in in
marketing is I have this um particular
chapter in my last book where I say
useless absurdity defines will define
you more as a brand than useful
practicality. And what I mean by this,
>> right, that's beautifully said,
>> is when I, this is the analogy I give. I
went to this gym in Canary Warf and I
walk in and it's got this 100 foot
climbing wall. It's massive gym,
incredible. I come home, I tell my
girlfriend, I go, "Babe, there's this
incredible gym." And then the next
sentence out of my mouth is the most
absurd thing because I know that will be
the most impactful. So I say, "They've
even got a 100 foot climbing wall." Cuz
if I say that, it implicitly tells them,
you know, tells my girlfriend, "This gym
is big." And and even in my last
company, the thing that the press
focused on in my office wasn't our work,
our case studies, the clients we had. It
was that we had this massive blue slide
that went into a ballpool. So whenever
the press came, they said, "Can you go
stand by the blue slide?" It was all
about this blue slide. The most absurd
thing gar all the attention. And I
actually think to
Trump's strategy is he leads with he's a
master labeler. Sleepy Joe. You know,
you can't
>> is very gifted.
Don't discount the guy in terms of that.
>> How do you beat someone playing that
game?
>> You have to be relentless on focusing on
what's actually happening.
>> Does that work?
>> And it means it means also
deconstructing. So that I mean one of
the things for example that I've been
talking about recently is there's a word
that applies so well to him in this era
which is a phrase gaslighting.
Right? So there's a whole lot of
gaslighting happening which is basically
misrepresenting, lying, scapegoating,
distracting, right, from what's really
occurring, including like this whole
thing where he's coming down so hard and
with these mass deportations which is
picking up a lot of American citizens by
the way in the process, hardworking
people in the process. And what he would
have people believe is that your
predicament
is because this is what he actually is
trying to sell. Your predicament is
because of relatively powerless people.
So you don't focus on the powerful
people.
He's basically saying to the American
people, you have less because of people
who have even less than you. Here's the
counterpoint. It works.
>> Yes, evidently.
But there is, you know, but at some
point the veneer and the the the
deflection
has to wear off. I don't know when
exactly that is going to happen. And I
think that, you know, listen, um, the
tariffs taking hold and when we get
around to the holiday season and people
realize how many toys are made in China,
what strengthens that approach is the
rapid amount of dis disinformation that
is spreading. It's so much and it just
spreads like wildfire. And trying to
stay in front of that with fact, much
less, to your point, practical messaging
and logic, it is a real challenge. It's
funny because I I sit here a lot with
neuroscientists and psychologists who
tell me about how the brain works and
they at a simple level they talk about
these two parts of the brain which is
like the rational prefrontal cortex and
then the emotional center like the lyic
system the amydala and they always tell
me that the most memorable um the part
of the brain that holds memories the
easiest and the best and that garners
the most attention is the emotional
center of the brain the amydala. So if I
say
>> that these people, these brown people
are coming over and they're rapists and
murderers.
>> Yeah.
>> It's much it's much more emotionally
captivating than you telling me about
like
>> statistics on on how America recovered
faster than any so-called wealthy
country economically from the pandmic.
>> Yeah, I I'll forget that within 10
seconds of you just saying it. But the
rapist and murderers thing, like my
objective sense goes, well, no, come on.
It's not the problem. But there's part
of me that remembers that and that's
even as someone who I think is
relatively informed on the the reality
of the situation. I still I remember um
Dr. I think it was Dr. Tally Sharet.
She's a neuroscientist. So she
understands that vaccines don't give
kids autism.
>> Yeah.
>> But she recalls this time in the
election many.
She recalls um I think it was Ben
Carlson or someone talking about the
science and then she the camera pans to
Trump and Trump is saying recounting a
story where a child who was this big
three-year-old beautiful child and they
came up to her with a needle this big
>> and they gave her the vaccine and she
got autism. Now science on one hand an
emotional story in the other. I know.
>> Tally, I think, said to me at the time,
she goes, "Even though I know it's not
true, there was part of me
>> that was a little bit scared."
>> I know.
>> So, my question here is how does how
does the Democratic Party win in such a
war when you're being fought with
emotion and fear? How do you win with
logic and rationality? like huh
>> I'll I'll answer your question directly
but I want to just add to the question
um that I think part of the question has
to be what is the responsible of media
what is the role of corporateowned media
um god bless independent media
because a lot of it is also about what
set of information are people working
with you know for example I've talked to
a number of people who voted voted for
me.
Saying to them who are having debates,
disagreement, you know, ending
relationships with people who voted for
him.
And part of what I'm asking people to do
is not to assume that the people with
whom they disagree are working with the
same set of information. Now, I didn't
say facts because 2 plus 2 is four,
>> but
I think it's a big mistake for us to
assume we're all working with the same
information.
And then when you compound that with,
you know, intentional efforts to
misinform and disinform and targeted, I
I was a member of the Senate
Intelligence Committee when we
investigated Russia's interference in
the 2016 election.
We declassified our findings. We made
them public. It included the fact that
this adversarial nation included in what
they targeted. They targeted black
voters
with the assumption that there are
certain people and demographically
certain groups who are more susceptible
to an argument about why they should
distrust their government because they
have a lived experience that tells them
that. And so I would say flippantly, oh,
so now all of a sudden the issue of race
in America is a national security issue.
So everybody needs to deal with it. We
know that certain demographics are
targeted with miss and disinformation.
Be they what we've seen around targeting
young voters or other groups based on
race or gender.
So when we talk about the role of the
Democratic party, there is a very big
role to play and there is a role for us
to to to require social media companies
to play, media companies to play and so
on because information is coming from
all of these places and and the
challenge is as big as
do we are we all working with facts.
We have a team at my company, Flight
Story, called Flight X. And their
primary responsibility is innovating
across our business so that we can save
time, money, be better at what we do.
And one of the recent challenges I've
set to the team Flight X is to find ways
to save our company more time. And in
that conversation, Fiverr Pro, who a
sponsor of this podcast, came up. Fiverr
Pro, if you don't know, is like a
strategic lever we pull. It's a
marketplace of experts across 750
different categories. every single one
of them handv vetted for quality and
they have enterprisegrade reliability.
And because I'm quite curious about
what's possible with something like
Fiverr Pro, we're going to go one step
further and over the next few weeks,
we're running an experiment with Fiverr
Pro to see just how much time we can
save and how much we can unlock using
their talent to accelerate our business.
So, let's see how it goes. And in the
meantime, if you're looking for a player
talent to give your team time back, head
to fiverr.com/diary
and get 10% off your first order when
you use my code diary.
A word you said there um piqued my
interest, which is the word independent
media.
>> Yes,
>> I am independent media.
>> Bless you.
>> And I'm in a group of my peers like the
big podcasters in the world like Joe
Rogan, etc., and Alex Cooper. I know who
show you Anton um in as part of your
campaign.
>> The media landscape is changing before
our eyes
>> rapidly.
>> You're sat in a set now. You're the
madame vice vice president. You're sat
in effectively my kitchen,
>> my old kitchen where they started, you
know,
>> and that's crazy. Like 20 years ago, the
thought that you'd come to my kitchen is
such a crazy thing. But it's in part now
because of the democratization of these
platforms and creating the content is
much cheaper and we have distribution
now across these big platforms.
Many would say that it changed the
course of the election. Podcasting,
>> not just the podcast you did or didn't
go on, but just the conversations that
take place on these podcasts. And
>> as I have to say, you know, as
podcasters, we don't have the same rigor
as traditional journalists, who I
respect a lot. We don't have the same
teams and real time fact, all those
kinds of things.
>> Podcasting, there was lots of
conversation around you going on Joe
Rogan's show or not going on, which
>> what is the what is the truth there for
anyone that hasn't yet read the book? Um
because Trump did like a hundred million
views on Joe Rogan's show and it in
three hours sat there getting to know
Trump and for better or for worse you
probably walked away from that
conversation feeling like you knew who
he was.
>> I wanted to do Joe Rogan show and there
was a lot of games being played but I
wanted to do Joe Rogan show. I think
podcasting is a very
powerful medium for people to get
information and and to your point a lot
of people that is a main source of
information and it's important for us to
support that. Joe Joe says you wanted he
want you want him to come to you which
is very un Joe like in terms of he
doesn't really travel in hindsight
do you wish you'd gone and done the show
for 3 hours at his studio in hindsight
it I' I'd mean really it just would be
what what were we giving up I wanted to
do his show and a lot of people advised
me not to do his show because they
assumed as it turned out to be correct
that he was supporting Trump and that it
would not be a productive piece for me.
But just like when I went on Fox News
with Brett Bear, my perspective was
they may have their bias, but there are
people that listen who are open-minded,
and I'm going to go there and give them
a chance to get to know me and give me a
chance to make my case to them.
>> So, that was my perspective on Joe
Rogan, just like it was my perspective
on Fox.
>> There was a lot of games being played
around the scheduling and it didn't
happen. Um, and you know, I I don't have
anything against um certainly not
against the people who turn on to Joe
Rogan and would love to be able to talk
with him in a direct manner um as I
wanted to during the campaign.
>> Do you in hindsight wish you just put
your foot down and said, "I'm going to
go do it."
>> I don't know if it would have made a
difference,
but yeah. No, I wanted to do it. So, let
me just say that, right? So, I wanted to
do it and it would have been great to do
and I think it would have been helpful
to do.
>> Yeah, I think so. So, it's just I mean
that the issue it was really about
what's the tradeoff in terms of votes
and where I spend my time. Do I spend my
time traveling for 5 hours and back
versus being for that period of time in
a swing state?
>> Mhm.
>> And that was the tradeoff.
>> I guess it goes to the point
>> it wasn't about I don't want to do Joe
Rogan or it believe me at that point in
a campaign it's not about oh is somebody
coming to me or me going to them. I
could care less about that. Pride is not
associated with it. It is more about
>> it's it is literally about return on
investment.
>> Okay. And this goes to our point about
efficiency earlier.
>> Yeah. Exact exactly right. The only
there's only one candidate.
>> So where am I spending my time to get
the greatest return on the investment?
>> If I was in charge of your campaign
>> I would have 100%
put you in that environment. Even when I
look at the trade-off in part because
someone like me and I consider myself to
be like genuinely really objective
>> and my friends know me as being extreme
not just objective on camera but
objective in my personal life.
>> I would have when you see a certain
environment present someone in a certain
way.
>> You really like the
>> the thing that can burst that bubble is
seeing that person go into that
environment. And like when I saw you on
Fox News, I watched that interview as
well.
>> Um
>> I actually think it strengthens
strengthens your supporters and actually
those independents who are in that space
too can can get a feel for you. So I
would have love to see and I actually
think
>> I hope in this next election cycle when
is it 2028 I really would love to see
>> both sides going to both sides and I
actually think that's happening now
going into those going into those
environments. I do also tend to think
that Joe would have been fair.
>> Mhm.
>> Well that's why I wanted to do it. I had
to assume that that was possible
>> and either way he's very popular. I
would have loved to watch that.
>> I I regret that we didn't do it. I
definitely regret that we didn't do it.
And um
listen, I have
been doing my work long enough that
for me it has I've never had the luxury
of saying I don't want to go into
uncomfortable situations.
>> Mhm.
>> You would need to have a different
profession.
PR people some some can sometimes [__]
things up for for other people. I think
I think in the new world there's this
new requirement to be more like a glass
box and less like a black box. I think
>> in 20 years ago the whole strategy of
businesses and brands and CEOs
executives was to basically be black
boxes where the PR team paints the
perception on the outside and in this
digital world where it's like the media
and platforms are distributed and all of
my employees here have cameras on them
at all times.
The defense is like transparency because
I'm not going to let you craft my
narrative. You're going to see it.
>> That's why I wrote the book.
>> Exactly.
>> History is going to write about those
107 days and I'm not going to let
>> that piece of American history be
written without my voice being present.
>> Are you going to run again? Cuz I look
at the polls. I looked at the polls and
you're leading for the Democratic side
and there isn't really a clear
Democratic
>> candidate. I I interviewed Gav Gavin
Newsome as well, but when I look at the
polls, you're still leading.
>> Yeah. You don't know.
>> I don't know. Honestly,
>> I feel like you know in your heart.
>> What do I know in my heart?
>> I feel like you know if you're you're
going to run in your heart or if you
have a calling or a feeling to is
something germinating.
>> I you know I'm focused on the book tour
sincerely. Yeah. And part of how I'm
feeling right now, part of the reason I
didn't run for governor of California, I
really don't want to be transactional
right now. You know, I don't I don't
want to be present because I'm asking
for a vote.
>> Okay. Yeah. What's the case for running
again and what's the case for not
running again?
>> H I think the case for running again is
if I can make a difference. Honestly, if
I can make a difference,
you know, if I feel that I can offer
something as president of the United
States that would be
not only
uplifting to the American people, but
would be um
about, you know, getting us
on a correct trajectory.
>> Do you know what my next question is
going to be? What
>> do you believe that you can offer
something to the United States that's
going to be uplifting and get us on a
better trajectory?
>> I mean, that's why I ran the last time.
Um,
so 28 is is a far it's I mean it's
practically tomorrow, but it's it's not
and we'll have to see what happens over
the course of these next few months,
several months.
>> Is there a case against running again?
What would that be?
>> You know, it's difficult to run for
president. takes a toll on your family.
Takes a real toll on your family. You
know, anyone running for president
should really take very seriously the
decision cuz it is not for the faint of
heart. You have to be able to take a
punch and throw a punch, but you got to
be able to take a punch.
>> A lot of punches.
>> Yeah. There's something that comes with
success. whether you're running for
president of the United States, build a
successful business, have a public
profile,
um, which is among the the the difficult
aspects of it, and there are so many
positive aspects, but among the
difficult aspects is
putting yourself out there in a way that
you invariably
will be in a position hopefully Not with
a lot of people,
but where you will be misunderstood.
That's an awful feeling.
>> Yeah, it is. Yeah.
>> Oh, it's an awful feeling to be
misunderstood
in this environment in particular.
Invariably, you will put yourself in a
position where some people will hate
you. It's awful.
They don't know you, but they'll hate
you.
And
so to do anything that is about
distinguishing yourself
by virtue of the thing you can offer or
a differentiation from yourself and
others of you know in a similar category
it it exposes you to a lot. Um and so
you have to know why you're doing it.
And I believe that you have to do it for
something that is bigger than yourself,
not about your own power, not about your
ego,
not about your entitlement. It has to be
because to endure the the the the not
just the process of getting into the
job, but the job itself,
you got to be clear about why you're
there. on that night when you the
results come in and you realize that the
election hasn't gone your way and that
Trump is going to be elected. What would
I have seen if I was a fly on the wall
in the room?
>> I was in a state of shock.
>> Really?
>> Did you think the day before that you
were going to win?
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah.
>> And so when did the the proverbial penny
drop? when I got a call from my campaign
manager
that it looks like we need 200,000 more
votes that we can't find.
Meaning, it's just the map, the numbers.
And
the thing I kept saying over and over
again, I was in a state of shock. I I
was
I was so inarticulate,
but maybe very articulate. What I kept
saying over and over again is, "My God,
my God, my God."
>> Really,
>> over and I couldn't stop. I
um I haven't felt that
emotion, anything similar to the emotion
I felt that day in for quite some time.
Um other than
the grief I felt when my mother died,
I fel I knew what was going to happen to
our country.
I knew I knew the harm that was going to
happen to people
and I I knew it. I knew what was going
to happen. You know, it's um
it's not like it's not about
winning
versus losing. It was never it was I
knew the consequence
of the outcome of that election and that
pained me. So
>> I can still see the pain in your face.
>> Oh, it's awful.
It's awful. You look at what's
happening. It's I mean
it it's awful what's right now.
The man is building a ballroom for a
bunch of his rich friends
while
millions and millions of people are
about to lose their health coverage in
terms of their being able to afford
premiums for their health care.
You look at the weaponization of the
Department of Justice
against political enemies. How titans of
industry are so afraid
that the capitulation that we're seeing
across the board, whether it be
universities, law firms, media
companies,
what's happening around gutting the
Department of Education,
lunch programs for for for lowincome
children. I IEPs,
individual education placement for for
special needs kids have I recently I'm
hearing the stories from mothers in
particular whose children have special
needs and they can't get an IEP.
These are babies, the children who are
most in need, their parents who are
struggling.
If you know a parent who has a special
needs child, what that means to their
life emotionally, physically,
financially,
and and we're not even giving them
assistance with their educational
program for their children. Meanwhile,
you're building a a gilded ballroom.
So, the harm,
it's extraordinary.
all those working people, the tariffs,
what this is meaning for people. He he
made a promise that on day one he was
going to bring down prices and
prices are higher for groceries.
Inflation is higher. Unemployment is
higher. And by the way, Stephen, it must
be said the failure of the Democratic
party will be going forward
to overlook the fact that it is bigger
than this one guy.
It is not just about this one person who
occupies the oval office. We are
witnessing what is the swift
implementation a high velocity event
that is the swift implementation of a
plan that has been decades in the
making. The strategy for dealing with
this moment has to include having some
historical perspective on how we got
here. That project 2025 didn't just fall
out of the sky. The idea of going after
public education, that's not new. the
Federalist Society, the Heritage
Foundation,
what's what the the gerrymandering of
districts, the the packing the court,
this stuff. This is about a an agenda
that is not going to begin and end with
one person. And
the destruction, it's profound. There
are there are however
a small group of people who have access
to the power and are close to the power
who are doing quite well.
the rest you look what what's going to
happen terms of working people
>> does the again as an objective observer
the democratic party needs to take
responsibility
for you know because the US operates as
this sort of two-party system where it's
kind of like this person versus this
person left versus right
>> right
>> the left lost they played it wrong from
the the Democratic perspective they're
paying the price of losing the game of
chess and so I think about the
Democratic party and you know They can
point at the the consequences of losing
that game, but I feel like the
Democratic Party needs to get their [__]
together so that they don't lose the
game again.
>> I agree.
>> And that's the personal responsibility
point, which is like how do how do you
stop yourself from finding yourself in a
situation where at the last minute Joe
Biden is pulled out with 100 days to go
and no one mentioned it. I mean, you say
in the book that you you you at the time
thought of it as grace. You talk about
this on page 46. You say you thought it
was grace to not basically mention that
there was a problem and grace not to
tell Joe Biden to pull out earlier,
>> but actually in hindsight, you now think
it was probably reckless not to tell him
to pull out
>> on my part. Yeah.
>> So what what what is that to you? What
does the Democratic Party need to to do
to
>> First of all, you know, if I had if I
had done it over
again, part of the reflection,
um, you know, we had the infrastructure
deal. We had the Chips Act, so we're
building back up America's
infrastructure. It's 150 years old.
Chips is about
manufacturing chips. um US manufacturing
both incredibly important. If I had to
do it over again, I would have first
gone with our family policy that was
about extension of the child tax credit,
affordable child care, paid family
leave. We needed to deal with the
immediate issues affecting the American
people. In fact, that's why I ran for
the 107 days on those issues, including
having Medicare cover, for example, for
people in the sandwich generation who
are taking care of young children and
older parents, Medicare cover home
health care, right?
>> Why I offered for small businesses that
they would get a $50,000 tax credit
because nobody can for startup small
businesses because nobody can start up a
small business on a $5,000 tax credit,
right? So
>> do you think the left is somewhat seen
as the enemy of entrepreneurship?
>> I think I think there is that
perception. I don't know if that is the
case in reality but I think we need we
have some work to do.
>> Yeah. I mean I I talk about in the book
for example I think it was a mistake to
not invite Elon Musk when we had um and
I'm no fan of his but I admire his work
as an innovator
>> and um as as you know the what he has
done in terms of American manufacturing
of electric vehicles. We should have had
him at the White House when we had all
the other electric vehicle American
electric vehicle manufacturers. Right.
>> I think this is part of the problem. And
when I read that, I was really happy to
read that cuz you can disagree with
someone in part, but still have the
nuance to be able to acknowledge this
part's good, but if you just shut them
out because of one thing, then you
really drive the vision.
>> I mean, this gets back to my earlier
point about what's the motivation
>> for the decisions that a leader makes.
And
the motivation I has has to be what is
for the greater good
and and have the ability to put aside
you know those things that may may fall
in the context of being more personal.
>> Mhm.
>> But I think we have to do a better job
of also focusing on being a bit more
bold.
For example, I think we should reduce
voting age to 16.
I'll tell you why.
So,
Gen Z,
they're age about 13 through 27.
They've only known the climate crisis.
They missed substantial parts of their
education because of the pandemic.
If they're in high school or college,
especially in college, it is very likely
that whatever they've chosen as their
major for study may not result in an
affordable wage.
They've coined the term climate anxiety
to describe fear of not only being able
to buy a home, but that fear it'll be
wiped out by extreme weather, but fear
of having children.
Um, it is expected that Gen Z will have
10 to 12 jobs in their lifetime. They
are a larger number than boomers.
There are specific generation of people
who are going to impact our nation and
the world. And I think we must invest in
them. But I think that they are rightly
impatient with a lot of what is the
tradition of leadership right now. And
if they were able to vote because they
know everything that's happening right
now is going to impact them more than
anybody older than them for the most
part in terms of how these systems work.
If they're voting right now at 16 and
up, they're going to be talking about
the importance of climate. They're going
to be talking about the importance of
figuring out how AI is going to affect
the future of the workforce. They're
going to be focused on what are we
really doing about affordable housing.
And basically in politics, here's the
the hard truth about this. There are two
centers of power that tend to influence
how politicians think. Groups that vote
the most and people who write the most
checks.
And I'm going to go every day with the
people the people and and thinking about
how do we strengthen people actually
going to the polls and voting. Back to
my point in 2024 one-third of the
electorate didn't vote. Let's focus on
why and are we talking with them? Are we
offering them bold solutions?
Are we bringing ideas forward that are
speaking to their immediate needs?
Are we are we doing it in an effective
way? Back to your point about podcast
and other mediums.
>> If you run again, do you think you'll go
into those more rightle leaning
environments, media environments? Would
you go on, you know, I'm not saying
Joe's rightwing, but would you go on
Joe's show?
>> I would certainly I would go at Joe's
show if I'm not running. I have a lot to
say.
>> Do you know when you'll make a decision?
Like what's the time frame for someone?
>> I don't know. I mean, I I don't know. I
obviously at some point we'll need to
make the decision. I haven't thought
about the timeline. Probably in the next
year. I mean, it's what is it? November
of 28. Primaries would be in June.
>> And since that day when Trump won the
election and you were sat there saying,
"Oh god, oh god, under your breath." How
has the balance of that decision shifted
over time? Has the conviction grown from
that moment? Like in that, if I had
asked you in that moment when you were
saying, "Oh god, oh god, under your
breath." Would you have said never
again?
And today are you more on the side of
potentially?
>> That's a great question. I think
well I could start with this. I think my
family would have said never again. I
think that as time has gone by. Um and
people have had a chance including
myself to kind of
sit with it, reflect on it. Writing the
book was very cathartic. Um being away
from it in terms of space and time. It
it has a way of mitigating the pain of
what that process was.
>> Just like grief.
>> Yeah.
>> Use the word grief to describe that
feeling. So
>> you get to acceptance at some point and
>> Yeah, that's a really good point. Yeah,
you're right. That's right. And you get
to process it
>> in a way that also is about what's my
role to play
and what could I have done differently
as a way to help guide future decisions,
whatever that be. I've built companies
from scratch and backed many more. And
there's a blind spot that I keep seeing
in early stage founders. They spend very
little time thinking about HR. And it's
not because they're reckless or they
don't care. It's because they're
obsessed with building their companies.
And I can't fault them for that. At that
stage, you're thinking about the
product. How to attract new customers,
how to grow your team, really, how to
survive. And HR slips down the list
because it doesn't feel urgent, but
sooner or later it is. And when things
get messy, tools like our sponsor today,
Just Works, go from being a nice to have
to being a necessity. Something goes
sideways and you find yourself having
conversations you did not see coming.
This is when you learn that HR really is
the infrastructure of your company. And
without it, things wobble. And Just Work
stops you learning this the hard way. It
takes care of the stuff that would
otherwise drain your energy and your
time, automating payroll, health
insurance, benefits, and it gives your
team human support at any hour. It grows
with your small business from startup
through to growth, even when you start
hiring team members abroad. So, if you
want HR support that's there through the
exciting times and the challenging
times, head to justworks.com now. That's
justworks.com.
>> Right guys, going to go get Steve. The
guest is here. Ready?
>> Come in.
>> OH MY GOD. STEVE, what
>> what are you doing?
>> This is uh the Bontage face mask. It's
good for blemishes, wrinkles, uh clears
up the skin. It's red light. Have you
not used it before?
>> No.
>> I tried this before. It's um it's really
really good. It shines red light on your
face which helps increase and boost
collagen production. Actually found it
out cuz of the misses. Seen her wearing
it. She terrified me a couple of nights
in a row. Um I thought it was to scare
people with but actually it's really
really good for your skin. So they are a
sponsor of the podcast and uh I've been
using it every day for about a year and
a half now.
>> Wow.
>> Well, Steve is great.
>> Yes. And Boncharge ships worldwide with
easy returns and a year-long warranty on
all of their products. So visit
bondcharge.com/diary
for 25% off on any product sitewide, but
you have to order through that link.
That's bondcharge.com/diary
with code diary. You talked about being
bold. Is that also in communication? Cuz
as I've seen you on this book tour, it
seems your communication has become
increasingly more bold. I've seen you
get up a couple of times and start
shouting a little bit at certain things
that pissed you off and being a bit more
unfiltered. And I think funnily I think
polish is actually
>> uh detrimental.
>> That's what I love about podcasting.
It's so unpolished. Like I sit here in
my [__] socks and it can it just
there's no your team's pretense. There's
no pretense. There's nothing you said I
couldn't ask you at all. Right. I was
wondering if that's
>> you've noticed that in yourself and if
that's you think that's important.
Right. Like, am I just like, "Fuck it."
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Don't ask the question with pretense.
>> Yeah, exactly. That's exactly what I
mean. Are you just like, "Fuck it, now
it doesn't matter." Cuz the book had
[__] energy.
>> Yeah, I think there is that energy in
the book. But just like here, but here's
part of it that I um in writing it and
now this is how I feel about it.
In so many ways, I've been in the belly
of the beast
and
I I feel that the consequence
of an election for president of the
United States impacts billions of people
around the world.
And yet the process can be so opaque.
And what I also hope to do with the book
is just lift up the hood on it so people
could see how it runs
and in a way that if it's for a
journalist, if it's for a high school
student, if it's for someone's
grandmother
to confirm or enlighten around what
people think it is in a way that they
can see themselves in their own power,
you know,
>> and that does require um demystifying it
and I guess part of demystifying is yeah
like I'm not going to hold on to oh this
kind of thing should not be talked
about.
>> Do you regret running with only 107 days
notice? Do you wish you hadn't ran?
>> No, I don't regret running. I wish we
had more time. I truly wish we had more
time. I truly wish we had more time. I
don't regret running.
>> Had you known the outcome, would you
have still ran?
probably
because
you know one of the things that happened
and to this day
men and women, girls and boys come up to
me and say there was something about
that campaign that excited something in
them. I can't tell you the number of
people who have come up to me and said,
"I decided to run for office because you
ran."
The number of people who have come up to
me and said, "I decided to go to law
school because you inspired me with what
I The number of people who have told me
about their young children
who, you know, saw something and got
excited about it and wanted to be a part
of it. I don't regret any of that. I I I
absolutely believe that we turned
something on."
In fact, I'm going to say this
differently because it's not like people
didn't have it in them. They had it in
them, but there was something that those
107 days did to welcome, to invite, to
grow the optimism and dare I say the joy
that people do carry with them. And what
I hope to do with my voice right now is
to remind everyone,
please don't let your spirit be
defeated. We may not have won the
election, but our spirit can't be
defeated because then they really win.
And sometimes the fight takes a while,
right? So, I don't regret having run
in spite of the outcome. Um,
but I do regret that we did not have
more time.
>> You mean you've got more time now?
>> Yeah. Time to do a podcast.
>> Time to run for president as well,
potentially. go out.
>> I um I look at I've got two pictures
here which I thought are beautifully
sweet. I'll show you both of them, but
>> Okay.
>> I um Yeah, these these two pictures here
of dog.
>> Oh, my doggy. Yeah.
>> How you know when if I was in a
situation where the election results had
come in and I' had that call from my my
team saying that there's 200,000 votes
we can't find.
>> I think I'd probably be turning to my my
partner in those moments.
>> Oh, I definitely did. Talk to me about
that. What's What role did he play?
>> I mean, he is It sounds so corny, but he
truly is my rock. He is um
My husband is just fully
self-actualized.
He's not pretending to be anything he's
not. He is a strong man who cares about
his family, cares about hard work. He is
loyal. He has a sense of humor. He's
very encouraging.
He's very honest.
And you know I want that for anyone and
everyone. I know you talk with a lot of
people and you know about advice about
career and all of that. for any of us.
What I want for anyone who has ambition
for success
have in your life and it doesn't have to
be a lot of people but that circle of
people who have some understanding of
what you're going through
and are there when you want to laugh at
the thing you're not supposed to laugh
about.
You want to use the words you don't use
wherever you pray.
Um the people who you know I talk about
you know if you if you slip and fall
they'll laugh at you and then pick you
up and push you back out there. None of
us has achieved success without those
people in our lives. And it might be
your spouse. It might be your partner.
It might be a family member. It it could
be anybody. But but be intentional about
having those people in your life because
look, this is life. There, you know, so
cliche, they're going to be the ups,
they're going to be the downs. It's it's
the
it's the beauty of living that, you
know, it it involves the whole spectrum,
but when you have people that can be
with you on your journey,
it just makes it better.
>> Do you remember what he said to you that
night?
Well, he was in as much of a state of
shock as I was.
We didn't I have to admit, we were not
very articulate that night.
>> How long did that last?
>> Well,
not until I started writing the book
and getting to the chapter on election
night. Do you know that was the first
time Doug and I talked about election
night?
>> Really? How how many weeks months was
that?
>> Months.
We had never talked about election
night. Never. Had never talked about
election night. It was when I was
writing the book. That's when he told me
something I had no idea, which is he and
my brother-in-law had been campaigning
on election day in Michigan. All felt
good. I remember talking to him and he
said, "It feels good out here.
Everybody's saying it feels good."
Then on their way back to DC,
they got a call from a friend of ours
who was a Democrat who but who was a a
pundit on Fox News and he was in their
boiler room, their war room. And he
calls Doug and my brother-in-law Tony to
say, "What are you guys hearing? Cuz
what I'm hearing concerns me."
I didn't know that happened.
All I knew was Doug went campaigning
with Tony. I was campaigning. Everybody
was campaigning. I had a house full of
family. When he came back to the house,
I knew something was like a little off
in retrospect.
What I didn't know is he had that
information.
And he had gone up the stairs to take a
shower and pray.
And
I didn't know until we talked about that
chapter because we talked about that
night. And then I was talking to him
about
we always do friends and family dinner
and I said, "Doug, remember the tables
and do you remember who was sitting at
our table?" And then and he said I said,
"Remember when I gave the toast?" He
said, "You didn't give the toast. You
didn't give a toast."
I said, "I did." He said, "No, you're
thinking about one of the other events
cuz we used to do dinners in that room."
No, it was our friends and family
dinner. I gave a toast. So, I looked for
the photographs of that night and I
found one and there I am standing giving
a toast.
Doug was so in his head at that point
worried
about what he heard from our friend
about what Fox News was reporting
in their boiler room. He didn't really
experience any of that. You know, have
you ever had those? Yeah.
>> But you've just like something is so
weighing on that you're not experiencing
anything that cuz that's all you're
thinking. M.
>> But he didn't want to tell me that
night. He prayed it would it was going
to be different.
>> In hindsight, could you tell that
something was off with him?
>> In hindsight, I could tell.
>> And I um
and yeah, and we never,
you know, cuz we we had to function.
We had a house full of people, family.
the next day
cuz we were going to go to Howard
University's campus, my alma mater, to
give a victory speech the night of the
election,
um told everybody to come back the next
day. And so then I had to get ready to
go and give a speech, which was a
concession speech. And actually to the
point of, you know, I had to reconcile,
I would close every rally by saying,
"When we fight, we win.
And it was not as simplistic as well,
you win some, you lose some. And I was
trying to figure out how do I,
especially for all those young people,
how do I help them reconcile that? And
on the way to the giving the speech, I
wrote into the speech, well, sometimes
the fight takes a while. But when I got
So when we got to the when we got to
Howard, we were in the, you know, green
room and our family was there. So this
is how awful I am. I'm looking,
everybody's crying. And I just looked at
them. I said, "We are not having a pity
party.
We are not having a pity party." And I
was just on
function,
you know, and then it was um
and then it was, you know, I had the
we we ended up we had a a trip planned
to Hawaii for vacation.
from many many months ago and there was
a emergency happening in the world and
so I couldn't go and we couldn't go and
we forgot that we actually cuz we had
paid to rent this house and my team
being so great they're like why don't we
see if we can get you to go to that
house now
>> Mhm. And as I reflected on it, it was
literally, it wasn't a vacation. It was
like the oxygen mask just dropped and we
put it on and went to Hawaii and
some friends of ours met us there and we
were like zombies, you know, for a
while. It was just it was we it was a
very difficult thing to process.
>> Is that depression?
>> Um, probably. I mean it's it's a it's
there is the thing about one um
about you know going going going going
and then all of a sudden
so there is that which is just your body
is physically used to this thing that
all of a sudden stops and I've had that
happen every time I've run and win even
right
>> like what it gold medal depression
>> right right
>> when you win the gold medal people get
depressed because
>> yeah because you because you've been
you've been functioning the whole time
in a very competitive nature and it's
fight or flight and it's adrenaline
adrenaline adren surging surging surging
and then there is the piece that is
about
I mean it it lasted for days which is
almost that you know they talk about
when people um
lose a limb there's the like the ghost
or the phantom
>> phantom limb yeah
>> right the phantom limb them and I had a
hard time reconciling. We can't still do
something about it.
I had a just I I knew it's just like I
knew I was going through the stages of
grief. I knew, you know, so that's good
to be able to put a label on something,
but it doesn't mean that you don't
otherwise experience it.
>> You weren't helpless at that point.
Yeah.
>> I wasn't I was just like there's
something there must be something I can
do. Do you reflect on um I know your
your mother passed away when in your
early you were in your early 40s. I
think she was 70 years old roughly and
she was colon cancer
her birthday was December 7th. She died
February 11th. She was just 2 months
into being 70.
>> Is her spirit and her her presence still
with you in these moments? And do you
reflect on what she had be thinking of
all this?
>> Very much. Very much all the time.
Um,
she I mean I can't
if my I you know it's funny I've talked
to a couple people who have lost their
parents who
were
who've lost them recently but whose
parents had a similar nature to my
mother. And one of them said to me most
recently, she said, "I'm so glad my
father is not alive to see this because
it would kill him."
I was just talking to somebody recently
who just said that. Um, oh, my mother
would be I'd pro, you know, it would be
a great distraction for me if my mother
were alive right now because I'd have to
spend full time talking her down.
would be,
oh, you know, when I talked about that
safe space,
>> so early on when I was running for DA,
this is when I realized I need to have
like that core group of like that safe
space. And I thought my mother would be
a perfect person to be in it.
And I realized that was a huge mistake
on my part because my mother wanted to
kill everybody
and then I'd have to spend full time
talking her down instead of dealing with
how I needed to address a situation.
So that's my mother's nature. We used to
call her mommy. That's mommy's nature.
>> She'd be so proud.
>> Oh, she would be proud. She'd be very
proud. She um Oh my god. So, she passed
just before my election as attorney
general
and I was I took care of her when she
was sick and we were um this is one of
those days and there were weeks where
she needed to be in the hospital and so
she was I was with her in the hospital.
She's in the bed and I was in the chair
sitting next to her and so like I'm here
and she's here and she was just kind of
resting
and she said to me, "How's the campaign
going?"
And she's and I'm sitting here. I said,
"Well, mommy,
this is truth." I said, "Well, mommy,
they said they're going to kick my ass."
My mother turned over and looked at me
and smiled.
Swear to God.
>> She didn't say anything.
>> She smiled like, "Yeah, let them try."
Uh-huh. That was my mother.
Yeah.
>> You miss her?
>> Oh, all the time. Yeah.
All the time. But, you know, it's um
here's the thing about life.
One of the things that I've learned um
you know it's just like having
the things that can be it's the duality.
The things that can be a great blessing
and
have a huge impact. When it's not there
it feels like a huge loss.
It's like you asked earlier would you
have done it differently then? Would we
ever say because we've experienced the
loss of someone we love that we would
not have loved? Never. Right. Never.
Yeah.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> Um I'm not going to We do have a closing
tradition, but I think we're out of
time.
>> Um I'm going to ask you anyway. [__] it.
Okay.
>> Um the closing tradition is the last
guest leaves a question for the next
guest, not knowing who they're leaving
it for. And the question left for you is
if there was a moment in the last 10
years you would do differently, what
would it be and why?
>> Oh,
>> I mean this is quite
the whole interview. I wrote read my
book.
>> Okay, we'll leave it at that. Read the
book 107 days. um Kla Harris. It's an
incredible book because it's so
unbelievably honest and it's so
unbelievably human and it lets you see
behind a curtain one does not usually
get to see behind which is extremely
extremely rare but extremely
illuminating and valuable. Um your
career is one that has inspired me
tremendously because you've broken down
walls, broken through ceilings and
continue to do that. And if anyone takes
the time to read your book or look
through the story of your life, it is
irrefutable that your agenda is to to
serve people. Thank you so much for
giving me your time today.
>> Thank you. I'm very very touched by
that. Thank you. Thank you.
[Music]